Fragment is a reusable portion of UI. It has has his own layout, lifecycle. Fragments must be hosted by Activity or another Fragment, they cannot live by themselves. Fragment's view hierarchy becomes part of(attaches to) host view hierarchy. 
To create Fragment we need to inherit from Fragment class, define FragmentContainerView inside Activity, add attribute name or setup Fragment transaction programmatically. To programmatically display fragment we need to use FragmentManager through supportFragmentManager() function and commit FragmentTransaction.add()
## Fragment Manager
Fragment Manager is class responsible for adding, removing, showing, hiding, replacing fragments. Every FragmentActivity has fragment manager, which is received through supportFragmentManager() method. Fragments are also capable of being a host to other fragments: to get fragment managers we can use either getParentFragmentManager()(that returns fragment manager of host of current Fragment) or getChildFragmentManager()(which returns fragment manager that manages current fragment's children). 
Each set of actions is commited through FragmentTransaction and if user pressed Back button or you call fragmentManager.popBackStack() latest transaction gets popped off. We can call addToBackStack() to save transaction on backStack. For example, if we call remove on transaction and don't call addToBackStack() then user won't be able to return to this Fragment, because it will be destroyed. However, if we call addToBackStack() Fragment enters onStop(), then, after popping off, it resumes. 
setReorderingAllowed(true) is used to optimize the state changes of fragments involved in transitions and animations between fragments, we should always use it. We can find fragment by using findFragmentById() that takes in parameter either by the given ID or fragment container's id. Also we can use findFragmentByTag(), but we need to define tag when we attach fragment.
setPrimaryNavigationFragment() method which allows to define main fragment, that can be primary navigation(when displayed 2 or more sibling fragments,back event works on this fragment)
By default fragmentManager uses default constructor without arguments to create and recreate fragments. To override this we can inherit FragmentFactory(), implement instantiate() method and pass it to FragmentManager inside onCreate() callback.
